---
layout: post
title: "Kirkbride"
date: 2018-05-28
tags: cartesiandivide nonduality mentalhealth history economy
---
The following was read at Red May Seattle's 2018 "Mass Reading," which was held at Vermillion Bar and Gallery on May 27th, in a dark and dingy back room.

It’s amazing how long it’s taken me to discover non-duality in a tangibly practical way, but even so I forget about gray area or two non-contradictory yet oppositional approaches. 

I keep thinking about this thing I heard, that “displacement is a form of modern slavery.” People wait for a long time at the doorstep of security. Their homelessness does something, though even in an economic sense I don’t know what beyond collateral damage. 

While troubled by this reality and feigning aversion to the purely aesthetic I spent a few weeks on the grounds of a defunct mental hospital.  A bat-wing building with rotundas, endless arcs of mosiaced floors with tiles that look like teeth but all shadowy and unlit. Seen from the outside, the hallways must be veins of a slumbering beast whose head is an attic filled with dirt; the basement dwindles eerily, also full of chambers. The wind is harsh from the prairie in the early spring, it’s perfect for how dry everything is, a mirror image. The building is yellow and everything is yellow and brown all around it, dehydrated and preserved. There is the unmistakable presence of the disappeared, who smoke cigarettes in gazebos broken in like dead insect wings, as specimens mistreated in their ordinariness.

130 years before I was there the patients were fed milk from cows raised in adjacent fields. Quarts of it, given warm, to quell agitation. The mental hospital believed in the power of bedrest; morbid mental excitation, febrile excitement, nervous exhaustion, acute delirious mania — all diagnoses. The head doctor was a homeopath and as was modern then, a healthy lifestyle was expected to clear up psychic distress. Occupational therapy was especially important, so these wards of the state were put to work. “They raised prunes, apples, twenty vegetable varieties, hogs, dairy and beef cows, horses, and chickens.” Later, “Rights and wages were the main reasons for the farm’s closure;” you can’t force unpaid patients to work for their food. Then toil was manifest medicine, where the awkward appendage of ideology gets put to use as it always does in medicine. Hysterics, those who hear, those who feel ushered through underground hallways and from building to building, to the field, given their quarts of dairy, their stew, their prescribed bedtimes and forced awakenings. The institution established order. The institution was for safekeeping and for spiritual correction.

Immediately before all of this history my own brother had appeared to me completely by accident on a city bus scratching his nappy head, eyes noticing me at first before he retreated back into a hostile privacy. His smell is thick like weed and sour milk. His toes are sticking out of old Pumas so I can tell he’s not wearing any socks. Toes are red and raw. There are little skin flaps around his eyes now. I keep thinking his eyes are like black fish-hooks he’ll sink into me when he decides to but otherwise I bounce right off of him, he repels me. Nicotine stained, those flaps look like droplets of oil. My concern for him is so intrusive and tender, hurt by his illegibility and stubborness, by the fact of his privacy. Especially when one knows the plants, animals, and chemicals that could shake him. He needs a place to sleep. Bedrest. 

Back to walking the perimeter of the hospital, the world seems like an hourglass or another building as rotund as that — gutted, defunct, waiting to get filled up again. I crave the specificity of a right way to live, and the space and time for its actualization. I struggle to stay awake during the daytime, while considering such questions: “Will eating food make me fat? What should I eat for breakfast? Should I eat breakfast?” Funny stuff, but also serious stuff like “What do you do about the things that don’t get better with medication?” I wonder whether my own physical distress is measurable on the scale of these other concerns. Surely there are vulnerabilities that exceed my comprehension of the non-exclusivity (or multi-directionality) of mutual influence. I’ve invited a cultural reflex towards perfectionism to be my subject. It’s abrupt, jarring. For the abject there are residential vouchers, biochemical factors, places where permissions are needed; all across the land treatment has a reason and must be justified. 